---
layout: post
category: post
title: Jekyll Firebase hosting
published: true
---

# Host a Jekyll site on Firebase #

This is [all newish](https://firebase.google.com/), but super honky dory for a few reasons.

+ Freebie for small single static sites
+ SSL all ready out of the box
+ CDN through Google automatically

Plus deployment is a breeze. If this pans out I will be hooked.

Looks like 25 a month for the paid version. Not sure about multiple domains for now. This service looks aimed at mobile app development, but has a lot of potential for other web projects.

<hr class="rule">
***

## Here we go

1. First up, do all the sign up crap.
2. Next, you will need to "Create a Project". Name it something incredibly stupid and choose where you want the data center located.
3. Select "Add Firebase to your web app". This will kick out some Javascript linking your project. Drop that at the bottom of your index page.
4. Then you will need to install firebase via npm `npm install firebase`
5. Alternately you can install the latest tools `npm install -g firebase-tools`
6. Login and hook it up to your Google account `firebase login`

***
***

## Firebase init

Now, Firebase will kick out a site by itself by just going to your project folder and running `firebase init`.

The prompt will lead you though a few options, but in this case I didn't chose any database info. You can also redirect to the index page, or it will create a basic 404.html if you don't have one set up.

Afterwards this will generate a "firebase.json" file and a public folder with a basic web setup. If you want you can also serve it up by going `firebase serve` and go to the localhost.

***
***

## Hooking it up to Jekyll

Cheap way to integrate this is to init a Firebase install and copy over the json file along with the public folder into your Jekyll project. Next you will want to change where Firebase points the public folder.

In firebase.json, change

<pre>
{
  "hosting": {
    "public": "public"
  }
}
</pre>

to:

<pre>
{
  "hosting": {
    "public": "_sites"
  }
}
</pre>

So now your Jekyll _sites files will be in sync with Firebase

***
***

## Cleaning up

Jekyll will copy over whatever is in the root of the install into the _sites folder, so you can exclude the json file or whatever you chose in the `_config.yml` like so:

<pre>
exclude:
  - CNAME
  - README
  - '*.json'
  - .DS_Store
</pre>

***
***

## Deployment

Is a snap. Just run `firebase deploy` and it will push everything up. You can check it all out at the default domain to test.
